Trump takes historic walk from the DMZ into North Korean territory as he meets Kim Jong-un, who hails him as 'courageous' - and the president invites dictator to visit the U.S. and announces resumption of 'concrete negotiations'

The president visited the DMZ on Sunday 

He shook hands with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un

He walked across the demarcation line into North Korean territory 

Trump repeatedly touted a potential meeting starting Saturday

He stoked the drama saying nothing was "final" until hours before it occurred 

Become the first U.S. president to step inside North Korea 

North Korea said at first said it was waiting for a formal invitation to meet Trump

It then called the idea an "interesting suggestion" 

Trump and Kim ended up meeting for 50 minutes inside "Peace House"

No immediate sanctions relief 

Mentioned a Kim visit to the U.S. but with no date 

Trump tweeted on Saturday morning inviting Kim to "shake his hand and say Hello(?)!"  

South Korean leader said he could "truly feel the flower of peace was blossoming on the Korean peninsula"

Trump said he knows "for a fact" DPRK's main negotiator is alive 

Said he hopes the rest of the negotiators are too 

President Donald Trump has taken the historic walk from the DMZ into North Korean territory in order to embark on a meeting with dictator Kim Jong-un.

Shortly after the pair greeted each other with a handshake Sunday, Trump was hailed as "courageous" by the North Korean leader. Trump in turn praised the "power" of Kim's voice – then criticized his predecessor and faulted the media for down-playing his achievements. 

"This has a lot of significance because it means that we want to bring an end to the unpleasant past and try to create a new future, so it's a very courageous and determined act," Kim told Trump through a translator after smiling during their initial handshake greeting.

"You're the first U.S. president to cross this line," Kim told him, moments after Trump became the first American president to venture into North Korean territory. Trump announced after the meeting that in the "near future" the two sides would be able to "get some good results after concrete negotiations" – but with nothing tangible other than the commitment to resume talks.

During the key moment – filmed and photographed from both directions – Trump slowly approached the boundary, as Kim strode toward him, arms moving. The two leaders shook hands at 3:45 pm local time above the low concrete barrier that marks the line of demarcation.

Good to see you again," Kim told his counterpart," whom he last saw during a summit in Hanoi that ended without agreement. "I never expected to meet you at this place." 

CNN reported that Trump on the spot invited Kim to visit the U.S. Trump later confirmed that, although with statements that were conflicting. He said the visit would happen "at the right time," but also said it could occur "any time" Kim wanted.  

"I said you, know what, at the right time, you're going to come over. We're going to go over there," Trump told reporters after his meeting, held along the 38th parallel, which marks the dividing line set at the time of the 1953 Korean War Armistice.

"I said any time he wants to do it," Trump said soon afterward. The president said of a web of sanctions imposed on the north: "I'm looking forward to taking them off," but that they remain in place. "At some point during the negotiation, things can happen," he added.

Trump repeatedly pointed to previous U.S.-North Korean tensions under the Obama administration – while leaving out mention of the period during his own term when repeated missile tests prompted him to threaten "fire and fury" and blast Kim as "Rocket Man" at the UN.   

"You see the level of relationship as opposed to the way I came into office - when I came into office it was a fiery mess," Trump said.

Trump got asked about the status of Kim's nuclear negotiators, after a thinly-sourced report out of South Korea that five top diplomats had been executed following the failure to reach a deal at the Hanoi summit in February.

"I know for a fact he is [alive]," Trump said of the DPRK's top negotiator. As for others, Trump said, "I would hope the rest are too."

Trump proclaimed his February summit, which failed to lead to an agreement, a "success," and says he told Kim as much.

"I was telling Chairman Kim that actually to me Hanoi was a great success. The press reported it the opposite," Trump said.

During the initial meeting at the line of demarcation, a North Korean camera crew and photographers snapped images from Kim's side, while American pool photographers and media came with Trump. White House handlers and a pool photographer urged them to hurry and stay out of the shots. "Get out of the way!" someone could be heard yelling during the video feed of the scramble for position. 

The two leaders then sat down inside the pastel blue Freedom House at the DMZ for what was to be a brief meeting. 

Incoming White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham became bruised in a "scuffle" with North Korean security as she tried to get press into position, CNN reported, with a source terming it an "all out brawl."

Also there to witness some of the historic moment were first daughter Ivanka Trump and husband Jared Kushner, who also were on hand for a series of Trump's meetings with foreign leaders in Osaka.

Asked shortly after the end of the Trump-Kim meeting what it was like to visit North Korea, the president's daughter replied: "Surreal."

At that event, like the greeting carried on live TV in Korea and on cable networks internationally, Trump thanked Kim again, once more stressing their personal bond, after Kim first lauded Trump. 

"I want to thank you, chairman," Trump said. "You hear the power of that voice. Nobody's heard that voice before. He doesn't do few news conferences, in case you haven't heard," Trump quipped – in one of his only references to the absolute power Kim wields in a regime known for mass starvation and use of a Stalinist-style gulag system to suppress opposition to his inherited rule.

"When I put out the social media notification, if he didn't show up the press was going to make me look very bad," Trump said, referencing his unexpected Saturday tweet proposing a meeting. "So you made us both look good and I appreciate it."

Kim told the media that with the meeting, "This means we can feel at ease and meet each other with positive mindsets."

"President Trump and myself, we have an excellent relationship with each other," Kim said, stressing the same themes Trump has been hitting for days, as he met leaders ranging from China's Xi Jinping to Russia's Vladimir Putin. "If it wasn't for that good relationship, it would not have been able to make this meeting possible," he said.

Kim said he hoped it could be "the foundation for better things in the future that people will be not expecting."

"This will be a very mysterious force that allows us to overcome many difficulties that existed in the past," Kim predicted. 

As he did during a Saturday meeting with Russia's Vladimir Putin when he brought up the "fake news," Trump joked with a strongman counterpart about the press. 

"When I put out the social media notification, if he didn't show up the press was going to make me look very bad," Trump said in reference to Kim and his tweet. "So you made us both look good and I appreciate it," the president told him. At another point he told the media that had Kim decided not to show, "You would have hit me hard."

When it was over, Trump visited Osan Air Base for an outdoor event that had the feel of a Trump political rally – complete with Marine One in the background, and an audio soundtrack including Lee Greenwood's "Proud to be an American" and the Rolling Stones" "You Can't Always Get What you Want." 

Trump even opted to attack Democrats during what became a diplomatic victory speech to the troops, after saying the military equipment was "sadly depleted" two and a half years ago.

"This is not a political speech, but the Democrats weren't going to give it to you, that I can tell you," he told the servicemen and women. "They want open borders and the hell with the military," Trump claimed, in a comment that could have drawn a Hatch Act complaint if made by a government employee.

Describing his earlier event, Trump said: "I actually stepped in to North Korea, and they say it's a very historic moment. Many people, I noticed, from Korea were literally in tears," he said.
