IT'S DON Donald Trump shakes hands with Kim Jong-un as he becomes first US president ever to set foot in North Korea
DONALD Trump became the first US President to set foot in North Korea today as he shook hands with Kim Jong-un at the Korean Demilitarised Zone (DMZ) for a historic third meeting.

The North Korean leader accepted Trump's Twitter invitation to "say hello" and "shake hands" in an attempt to revive stalled nuke talks.

This is Trump's first visit to the heavily fortified border between the North and the South – as his last attempted trip in 2017 was thwarted by bad weather.

Trump crossed the border and became the first US President to ever set foot in North Korea - and Kim said he was "proud" he did it.

The moment was filmed and photographed as Trump approached the concrete barrier at about 3.45pm local time.

Kim said it was good to see Trump again and hailed the 45th President as courageous for crossing into North Korea

Trump spoke to reporters as Kim stood beside him.

He said: "I just want to say this is my honour. Stepping across that line is a great honour, great progress has been made, great friendships have been made and this has been, in particular, a great friendship."

Trump also thanked Kim for being able to meet on short notice.

He said: "We met and we liked each other from day one, and that is very important."

He also invited the North Korean leader to the US for a visit and added "history has been made".

Trump said: "I would invite him right now."

"When I became president of the US, there was great great conflict, now there is less conflict."

"It's my great honour and the Chairman's honour."

Kim confirmed he was asked to meet Trump yesterday and said he wanted to meet again.

He told reporters: "I believe that meeting here, which is a symbol of division and a hostile past, I think meeting here, two countries that have a hostile past, we are showcasing to the world that we have a new present and we have a positive meeting going forward."

"The great relationship between President Trump and I, I don't think if we didn't have such a great relationship we could have organised this meeting in just a day."

"I would like to use this strong relationship to create more good news that nobody expects."

North Korean camera crew appeared to clash with American pool photographers during as they told the crews to "get out of the way" and stay out of shots.

The two leaders then sat down inside the pastel blue Freedom House at the DMZ for what was to be a brief meeting.

Trump thanked Kim again for meeting in front of international TV cameras.

He said: "I want to thank you, chairman. You hear the power of that voice. Nobody's heard that voice before. He doesn't do few news conferences, in case you haven't heard."

"When I put out the social media notification, if he didn't show up the press was going to make me look very bad."

Kim replied: "President Trump and myself, we have an excellent relationship with each other."

"If it wasn't for that good relationship, it would not have been able to make this meeting possible."

He said he hoped it could be "the foundation for better things in the future that people will be not expecting."

"This will be a very mysterious force that allows us to overcome many difficulties that existed in the past."

Trump was photographed getting his first glimpse of North Korea as he stood atop Observation Post Ouellette.

In a press conference, Trump spoke about his "chemistry" with the North Korean leader.

"For some reason we have a certain chemistry - or whatever. Let's see what happens," he said.

"We have a long way to go. But I'm in no rush."

"So, I just want to say that we are going to be heading out to the DMZ and it's something I planned long ago but had the idea yesterday to maybe say hello, just shake hands quickly and say hello."

Trump also hinted that a third official summit with Kim might be on the cards – depending on the outcome of today's meeting.

"What we're doing today is a step. It might be an important step and it might not."

"As far as another meeting, let's see what happens today before we start thinking about that," Trump said.

Moon praised the two leaders for "being so brave", saying: "I hope President Trump will go down in history as the president who achieves peace on Korean Peninsula."

Trump has expressed openness to crossing into North Korean territory if Kim accepted, saying he'd "have no problem".

Speaking to business leaders today in Seoul, South Korea, Trump said: "I understand they want to meet and I'd love to say hello."
"A HANDSHAKE MEANS A LOT"

He says the meeting may be "very short, virtually a handshake but that's okay, a handshake means a lot".

The US President arrived in Seoul on Saturday evening after a series of high-profile meetings at the G20 summit in Osaka, Japan.

Trump met with South Korean President Moon Jae-in at the Blue House, where the leader has his offices and home.

Trump and Moon agreed a meeting on Sunday at the DMZ would be a "good thing."

That's according to a South Korean presidential official, Yoon Do-han, who spoke to reporters in Seoul after the two presidents had dinner.

Yoon says Moon talked about Kim's commitment to denuclearisation, while Trump expressed his "amicable" views on Kim.

Yoon says a Trump-Kim meeting, if it comes off, would help pave the way for the resumption of nuclear diplomacy.
TRUMP'S SOUTH KOREA TRIP

After the dinner, Trump tweeted that he and Moon had "toasted" to their new trade deal.

He described the deal as a "far better one for us than that which it replaced".

"Today I will visit with, and speak to, our Troops - and also go to the DMZ (long planned). My meeting with President Moon went very well," Trump added.

While still in Japan, Trump had approached Kim via Twitter in an attempt to set up a meeting.

"I will be leaving Japan for South Korea (with President Moon)," Trump tweeted.

"While there, if Chairman Kim of North Korea sees this, I would meet him at the Border/DMZ just to shake his hand and say Hello(?)!"
"I PUT OUT A FEELER"

When asked about the invite in a press conference, Trump reportedly said he "just put out a feeler" because he doesn't know where Kim is.

"I just thought of it this morning," Trump declared.

The president has been trying to restart nuclear talks with the North after they broke down during his second summit with Kim earlier this year in Vietnam.

The summit collapsed without an agreed deal for denuclearising the Korean Peninsula.

Washington has said it will only relax crippling economic sanctions against the country if North Korea gives up its nukes and long-range missiles.

But North Korea has said it will only scrap its nuclear weapons after sanctions are lifted entirely.
"READY FOR NUKE TALKS"

A US special envoy said on Friday the US was ready to hold constructive talks with North Korea to follow through on a denuclearisation agreement reached by the two countries last year.

Stephen Biegun told his South Korean counterpart, Lee Do-hoon, that Washington wanted to make "simultaneous, parallel" progress on the agreement set in Singapore.

Both sides agreed to establish new relations and work towards denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula.

But negotiations have stalled since a second summit in Vietnam in February collapsed as the two sides failed to narrow differences.

Russian President Vladimir Putin told South Korean President Moon Jae-in at a summit on the sidelines of G20 meeting in Japan that Kim had told him in April security guarantees were key.

He also said that corresponding measures were needed to realise denuclearisation, according to South Korea's presidential office.
TRUMP TRIP TO SOUTH KOREA

The envoys' meeting, and Putin's remarks, took place ahead of Trump's visit to South Korea this weekend.

During this trip, Trump and President Moon Jae-in are expected to discuss ways to kick-start dialogue with the North.

Reclusive North Korea has pursued nuclear and missile programmes for years in defiance of U.N. Security Council and U.S. sanctions.

"Biegun said the upcoming summit would provide a crucial chance to foster peace and prosperity of the Korean peninsula," the ministry said.

Lee offered positive views on a recent cordial exchange of letters between Trump and Kim and on Chinese President Xi Jinping's summit with Kim early this year.

U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo raised hopes for a revival of talks after the letters, while Xi told Moon on Thursday that Kim's resolve for denuclearisation and dialogue remained unchanged.

Biegun also met South Korean Unification Minister Kim Yeon-chul in charge of inter-Korean affairs, during which they vowed utmost efforts to revive nuclear talks, the foreign ministry said.

Moon has said Washington is in behind-the-scenes talks with Pyongyang over a possible third summit and has proposed a fresh round of talks.

But the North said on Thursday the United States had become "more and more desperate in its hostile acts" even as it spoke of dialogue.

North Korea's state media KCNA on Friday urged the United States and South Korea to scrap their plans to carry out joint military drills in the summer.

The allies have replaced their annual major exercises with smaller-scale programmes following last year's detente. But Pyongyang sees the drills as a rehearsal for war and demands they be called off.

"This amounts to a wanton challenge to the desire and expectation of all the Koreans and the international community for peace and stability on the Korean peninsula and an act to create the atmosphere of confrontation and danger of war again," KCNA said in a commentary.
