Land-system conversion through urbanization represents a major mechanism of global environmental change (Rockstrom et al., 2009). Cities and megacities (greater than 10 million residents) have unique physical, chemical, and biological characteristics (e.g. heat islands, pollution, invasive species) that lead to novel interactions and underexplored frontiers for ecological research. Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi form belowground symbioses with the roots of most plants, improving access to soil resources (e.g. phosphorus, nitrogen, water) in exchange for plant-derived photosynthates (Smith and Read, 2008). In cities, AM fungi exist in a variety of different environments including lawns, parks, landscaping, golf courses, urban farms, and green roofs (Cousins et al., 2003; John et al., 2014, 2016), but our knowledge is primarily descriptive and lacks a mechanistic determination of the factors that influence AM fungi abundance in urban ecosystems. 
Green roofs, vegetated surfaces on the rooftops of buildings, are increasingly being considered important ecological spaces in urban environments (Oberndorfer et al., 2007). Initially installed to provide ecosystem services such as stormwater absorption, neighborhood cooling, and building insulation, they can also be a place to promote urban plant and wildlife biodiversity conservation (Brenneisen, 2006). In megacities, green roofs potentially play an important role in urban biodiversity conservation as land is limited in densely populated areas (Oberndorfer et al., 2007). Green roofs can be intensiv e (i.e. deep soil, diverse plant community) or extensive (i.e. shallow soil, low-growing plants) and, in North America, are often planted with non-native plants from the genus Sedum, as they require little maintenance in the hot, dry (yet periodically flooded) environment of green roofs. Sedum species are generally thought to be non-mycorrhizal, but published records suggest variability among species to form mycorrhizas in anthropogenically impacted environments. Sedum rosea (Harley and Harley, 1987), Sedum alfredii (Wu et al., 2007), Sedum adolfii (Wang and Qiu, 2006), Sedum maximum (Kowalczyk and Błaszkowski, 2011) are all highly colonized by AM fungi in environments across a gradient of anthropogenic impacts. Sedum acre forms mycorrhizas in wild dune populations (Harley and Harley, 1987), but was not observed to form mycorrhizas on green roofs (John et al., 2014). The mycorrhizal associations of other Sedum species and horticultural varieties utilized on green roofs have not been studied and it is unclear  how urban Sedum populations influence the abundance of urban AM fungi. Green roof plant communities often include native plants to promote biodiversity conservation in urban environments (Lundholm, 2015) as well as other naturalized recruiter plant species. The majority of native and naturalized plant species growing on urban green roofs either planted intentionally or passively recruited form belowground associations with AM fungi (Wang and Qiu, 2006). Green roof soils are typically engineered to be lightweight and shallow (4e20 cm) and contain lower organic matter and nutrient holding capabilities compared to natural soils (Schrader and Bo€ning, 2006). In the United States, green roof companies utilize proprietary substrate blends advertised to meet the guidelines of the German Landscape Research, Development, and Construction Society (Landschaftsbau, 2002); particle size distribution is engineered for a coarse gravelly texture and organic matter is less than 6% prior to installation, though belowground properties likely change rapidly after planting. Throughout this paper, we intentionally use the term “soil” as opposed to “substrate” or “growing medium” because green roof soils (and many urban soils), while heavily anthropogenically impacted, still fall under the conventional definition of soils such that they contain mineral and organic components, are affected by physical, chemical, and biological processes, and support biota (Soil Science Society of America, 2008).  
