Numerous studies on climate change predict a global rise in temperatures. The consequences of this increase will be more troublesome in urban areas, where the temperatures are already higher than in surrounding rural areas. This heating phenomenon is mostly due to anthropogenic development in the urban area [1] and the increase of building covered areas [2]. The construction materials commonly used absorb most of the radiation and release it as heat. This generates the urban heat island phenomenon, which has direct and indirect impacts on the health and life quality of the citizens [3]. Urban heat islands vary in magnitude and structure according to two main groups of factors: climatological factors (such as climatic region, season, time of day, synoptic conditions and wind regime) and those related to the physical and human nature of the built environment, such as geographic location, topography, urban landscape geometry, type of building materials and intensity of human activities [4]. In fact, a study aiming to identity heat islands at different height levels conducted in Tel-Aviv (Israel) showed that parks and open areas were the coldest elements within the city during day and night [5]. There is a clear correlation between plant cover and land surface temperature [6,7], and consequently, an urban increase in green areas would contribute to mitigate the Heat Island [8]. Nevertheless, in many modern cities, there is a high density of building covered areas which does not allow raising the number of green areas. Thus, in order to increase the presence of urban vegetation, it is necessary to draw on systems implemented on existing buildings. Currently, the sum of all the building roofs represents a high percentage of exposition in urban areas. Estimations for dense cities prove that the fraction of roof area varies between 20 and 25% of the total area [9]. Because of this, the use of these surfaces to increase urban vegetation is an interesting option. 
Green  roofs are urban greening systems that precisely allow installing plant life in the roofs of buildings through more or less complex elements. They can be extensive, lighter, and with less substrate when establishing smaller species, or more intensive and heavier with greater amount of substrate where small trees and shrubs can be included [2]. Green roofs have existed for more than a thousand years, although their use has become more relevant in modern times and new technical solutions that favor their implementation have appeared. This development has come about since not only do they provide a nice relaxing space or scenery, but also ecosystems services such as microclimate regulation, rainwater management, improved building insulation (with an influence on inner temperature), noise absorption, decrease of air pollution, and biodiversity enhancing [3,10]. Moreover, they contribute to increasing the albedo of urban areas [11]. 
Many studies on green roofs are oriented to their capability to regulate temperature. However, depending on the climate and the type of green roof (different plant material, substrate, and construction features), their efficiency can vary [12]. The thermal efficacy of a green roof is closely related with the climate, and it becomes more significant when the environmental temperature rises [3]. This efficacy is measured from the point of view of energy savings in warm areas for their capacity to lower temperatures [2] of both the roof surface and the air above it [13]. For example, an analysis of the surface temperature before and after the placement of a green roof in Singapore showed a significant decrease once the green roof was installed, especially for high plant cover, making the maximum temperature difference approximately 18 C [14]. Another study in Hong Kong proved that the heat stored in a bare roof was 75% higher than that of a green roof [15]. In the city of Chicago, the temperatures in summer of the surface of a green roof and a neighboring building were compared. The temperature of the green roof varied from 33 to 48 C, while in the conventional dark roof of the adjacent building the temperature was 76 C. The air temperature near the surface of the green roof was 4 C lower than near the conventional roof [16]. This decrease in temperature happens because, in a green roof, the flux of sensible heat is low due to the high latent heat flux from evaporation, even if the net radiation is high. This works to lower the temperature in a specific area [17]. Also, some simulation studies indicate that green roofs can decrease the mean environmental temperature from 0.3 to 3 C at a city scale, and drastically decrease the heat island effect [2]. 
Nowadays, in many cities of several countries, such as Germany, the U.S.A., Denmark, and Canada, their governments have developed a variety of norms, incentives, and technical services to promote the naturalizing of roofs [18]. These measures will foster the increase of the area covered by green roofs, which will have favorable consequences on the specific climatic conditions in the urban areas where they are installed. In fact, the mass installment of green roofs might work as a mechanism to decrease the Heat Island effect and counteract the temperature increase due to climate change. In order to do so, the remaining question would be how much surface would be needed to mitigate the effect of climate change.
