Urban warming is a major threat to urban populations. Increase of the ambient temperature in cities is due to the combined effect of the heat island phenomenon and the global climate change. Urban heat island is the more documented phenomenon of climate change and deals with the increase of the urban temperature compared to the temperature of the surrounding rural areas. Urban warming has a very important impact on the quality of life of urban dwellers. It increases considerably the energy consumption spent for cooling purposes [1], it rises the peak electricity demand [2], while it deteriorates the environmental quality, and causes discomfort and increased health problems in cities [3]. 
To counterbalance the serious impact of urban warming, important mitigation strategies have been proposed, developed and implemented in real scale projects [4]. Urban mitigation technologies aim to decrease the strength of heat sources and enhance the potential of heat sinks in the cities. Among the more efficient of the mitigation technologies are: (a) those aiming to expand the green spaces in cities through the use of green roofs or additional park and green areas [5], (b) technologies increasing the albedo of the cities through the use of cool materials presenting a high reflectivity in the solar spectrum together with a high emissivity factor [6,7], (c) strategies to decrease the anthropogenic heat released in cities and (d) technologies employing the use of low temperature sinks to dissipate the excess urban heat [8]. 
Urban green involving parks, green roofs, trees in the streets and open spaces contribute extensively to mitigate urban warming as it provides solar protection and cooling of the ambient air through evapotranspiration processes. Vegetative roofs are partially or completely covered by plants over an engineered planting substrate on specialized build up of polymer materials. They are differentiated by the type of plants they may support. Extensive type green roofs are covered by low vegetation while intensive green roofs may support growing of shrubs and small trees. Important benefits are associated with the use of green roofs. Because of the solar and heat protection they provide, contribute to lower the energy consumption of buildings, while through latent heat processes, decreases the surface temperature of the roofs and reduce the release of sensible heat to the atmosphere. In parallel, green roofs help with the storm water runoff management, provide better air quality, reduce noise, prevent erosion and increase the durability of the roof materials [9]. Disadvantages associated with planted roofs are the additional load that the building has to support actually mitigated with the installation of lightweight specialized build up systems and the relatively high investment cost. 
The energy and mitigation performance of the vegetative roofs is governed by several climatic, optical, thermal and structural parameters. In particular, air temperature, solar radiation, ambient humidity, precipitation and wind speed are the main climatic parameters influencing the performance of green roofs. In parallel, thermal, optical and hydrological parameters like the thermal capacitance and U value of the roof, the absorptivity of the green roof as a system, and the frequency of watering of plants determine the efficiency of the green roofs. Finally, the total one sided area of photosynthetic tissue per unit of ground surface area, LAI (Leaf Area Index), is a crucial parameter defining the latent heat losses of the roof [10].  
