Although rapid urbanization warrants a need to implement sustainable hydrologic structures that limit environmental degradation, it has become apparent that green surfaces, mainly in urban regions, are being replaced by additional buildings and pavements, which in fact, is changing the original permeable conditions to the impervious surfaces (Berndtsson, 2010). Consequently, there has been a considerable increase in the surface stormwater runoff, which has resulted in more frequent flooding and water logging (Al-Rawas et al., 2015; Ellis et al., 2012). To address this issue, a number of alternative options are being proposed to restore the hydrology of urban areas, including but not limited to the maintenance of green areas, and the recovery or restoration of deforested areas (Wilkinson et al., 2014). In reality, conventional rooftops can constitute up to 40–50% of the impervious area in a densely built-up urban center where no space is available for a new infrastructure to be put in place (Dunnett and Kingsbury, 2004). Green roofs, which are a primary focus of this study, utilize the otherwise unused impervious surfaces to restore predevelopment hydrologic functions, such as a better infiltration and retention effect (Razzaghmanesh and Beecham, 2014). Given a natural shortage of land in urban areas, green roofs can therefore be one of the most important options to address issues associated with surface runoffs (Berndtsson, 2010; Palla et al., 2010). Recently, green roofs have received increased recognition in developed countries such as the USA, Japan, Australia and Europe (Berndtsson et al., 2008; Mentens et al., 2006; Vijayaraghavan et al., 2012; Williams et al., 2010). The purpose of adopting such technologies is to use a smart approach that addresses the pertinent issues associated with waterlogging, urban flooding and uncontrolled runoffs that is likely to pose serious environmental impacts. 
The increasing premise of a sustainable city promoted by a green roof, also known as an integrated eco and a living roof, is becoming an issue of interest to hydrologists. Typically, a green roof consists of three major components: a vegetation layer, a lightweight substrate medium and a water storage/drainage layer placed on top of a waterproof membrane (Carson et al., 2013; Yang et al., 2015). According to the depth of the growing substrate layer, a green roof is commonly classified into extensive or intensive categories. Generally, a green roof with a substrate depth of less than 15 cm is classified into an extensive green roof and its vegetation consists of a shallow rooting, and drought resistant plant. Rainwater that falls on the green roof can be captured in the substrate or the vegetation and is eventually evaporated from the surface of the soil and released back into the atmosphere by the process of transpiration (Dunnett and Kingsbury, 2008). The  benefits of a green roof is, off course, to help retain stormwater (Gregoire and Clausen, 2011; Schroll et al., 2011; Speak et al., 2013), delay the peak discharge time (Carter and Rasmussen, 2006; Spolek, 2008), and to attenuate the peak discharge volume (Carpenter and Kaluvakolanu, 2011; Stovin et al., 2012). These functions clearly outline the major contribution of an urban green roof in the control and moderation of surface hydrology in urban cities where flood-risk management is a crucial determinant of the overall safety of the city dwellers. 
Many researchers have investigated the rainfall-runoff behavior of a green roof (Carter and Rasmussen 2006; DeNardo et al., 2005; Moran et al., 2003), primarily to investigate its implications on surface water flow. Pilot scale studies based on elevated test boxes or similar modules (with a watershed area that can range between 0.37 m2 and 12 m2) have been instrumental in helping to identify and quantify relationships associated with runoff retention of green roofs (Carson et al., 2013). Research into the hydrological properties of a green roof has therefore reveal a range of average rainwater retention efficiencies that vary from one design to another. For extensive green roofs (i.e., with a substrate depth < 15 cm), the average rainwater retention efficiency is nominally estimated to be between 45% (DeNardo et al., 2005; Mentens et al., 2006) and 60% (Moran et al., 2003), and the cumulative annual retentions is about 50% (Stovin et al., 2012) and 60% (VanWoert et al., 2005). The water retention capacity of a green roof system is therefore dependent on several causal factors, such as the rainfall specific characteristics, antecedent moisture conditions, substrate depth and its hydraulic characteristics, storage/drainage layer capacity, vegetation cover characteristics, and slope of the green roof (Bengtsson et al., 2005; Carter and Rasmussen, 2006; Getter et al., 2007; Simmons et al., 2008; Speak et al., 2013; Teemusk and Mander, 2007; Villarreal and Bengtsson, 2005; Wong and Jim, 2014). It should be noted that real-time (i.e., field) measurements of these factors can be rather a tedious, if not an impossible task, and a large variation in the above-mentioned conditions and the respective factors in existing literature also make it difficult to compare the water retention from these independent green roof runoff studies. Considering the difficulties encountered in accurately performing real measurements and the inconsistency of information obtained from previous studies, independent experiments that are able to explore the influence of a green roof design on the underlying urban hydrology (and particularly the runoff retention) in a well-controlled manner, is an issue of practical interest. In addition, to the quantification of runoff retention for different rainfall sizes, there is a particular need to understand retention for significant events with large return periods (These events generally overwhelm stormwater management systems and result in flooding). 
To concur with the foresaid reviews, the runoff retention capacity of green roof is a result of the combined action of various factors affecting the runoff retention itself, which results in various, and rather inconsistent conclusions. Many research studies focused on the influence of one or two different structural factors on a green roof’s runoff retention. However, multiple structural factors, which are particularly important from a practical viewpoint, have not been considered to assess their integrated contributions to the runoff retention. Therefore, to address these issues from a practical point of view, the primary structural factors must include the substrate material, substrate depth, vegetation types, and slope gradients, as undertaken in the present study.
