As a consequence of rapid urbanization, many global cities have been transformed into congested and overpopulated concrete jungles leading to a number of environmental problems such as pollution of its various forms, urban heat island (UHI) and heat stress, among others [1]. The UHI phenomenon basically arises from the heat storage capacity of paved areas, anthropogenic heating and reduction of green spaces leading to higher urban than rural daytime and nighttime air and surface temperatures [2]. In a bid to mitigate or adapt to UHI and heat stress, several countermeasures such as urban greening (i.e. tree-planting, facade greening and roof greening), cool roof, water-retentive materials, modification of urban morphology, insulation of buildings, application of irrigation systems [3,4] have been suggested and are being implemented by urban planners and landscape architects. Urban greening is one of the most effective of these countermeasures as it directly reduces solar gains by surfaces. Of all forms of urban greening, tree-planting is the most efficient and more advocated for ground surface temperature reduction. However, the contribution of roofs’ surfaces cannot be overemphasized as they cover more than 20% of the total urban surface [3]. Hence, cooling roof surfaces’ temperature could significantly contribute to UHI mitigation, indoor air temperature reduction and lowered cooling energy demand [5,6]. This is even more important due to limitation of ground surface area for ground level tree-planting especially in high-density cities. Therefore, green-roofs though ancient practice, are becoming popular as a potential alternative and means of re-establishing the connection between nature and city [7], enhancing the aesthetic appearance of a building [8] and improving environmental quality. Simply put, a green-roof is a roof top used for plantation with the use of a suitable growing medium. In recent years, green-roofs have been getting popular as a suitable technique of introducing greenery into congested cities [9]. Latest technological advancements have enhanced the flexibility and speed of construction of green-roofs enabling them to be integrated into most of the projects. Modern green-roofs are generally consisting with number of layers. These may include vegetation, growth substrate, filter fabric, drainage element, root barrier, insulation and water proofing membrane depending upon the location and the requirements [9–11]. In a broader perspective, green-roofs are classified into intensive and extensive based on the thickness of the substrate layer. Green-roofs with thin substrate layer (<15cm) are considered as extensive green-roofs. On the other hand, if the substrate is thicker (20–200 cm), they are considered as intensive green-roofs. These layers enhance the insulation capacity of a conventional roof by controlling the heat transfer into the building [12]. In addition, these layers block the solar radiation reaching the building surface. Only limited type of vegetation can be grown in extensive green-roofs such as grass. Intensive green-roofs have more flexibility in accommodating shrubs and small trees. However, they require more attention in structural support, maintenance and irrigation [13,14]. Therefore, extensive green-roofs are widely used in practice due to lower cost and maintenance compared to intensive green-roofs [9]. Solar radiation is the main heat source into the buildings. Integration of vegetation to the building surface is an effective way of controlling this heat gain [15,16] as greenery absorb the solar heat and evaporates water through biological functions and metabolism, a process known as evapotranspiration which essentially creates a cooling effect in the surrounding. The evaporative cooling potential of the vegetation layer may depend upon characteristics of vegetation such as foliage density and leaf thickness [17,18].  
Green-roofs have a range of benefits: they improve the microclimate, minimize heat island, lowers the building envelope temperature and reduce energy consumption and peak cooling load of the building at both city, neighborhood and building scale [13,18,19]. Besides, they are known for reducing the risk of flooding by retaining rainwater and delaying the peak flow [20,21] and also helps to control the urban sound pollution [22]. Moreover, they are efficient in absorbing gaseous pollutants including greenhouse gas emissions and helps remove of particulate pollutants thereby contributing to improved urban air quality [23,24]. 
The performance of green-roofs for urban cooling and energy reduction is dependent on several factors based on findings from previous studies. First, building height and urban density: previous studies [25,26] have shown a negligible cooling effect of extensive and intensive green-roof in medium to high density neighborhood. It has also been established that intensive green-roof provides better environmental and energy reduction benefit than their extensive counterparts mainly due to higher soil depth and leaf density implemented in the former [27]. Another important factor is the geographical location on the green-roof installation. While several studies have investigated the benefit of green-roof, most did so under singular climatic condition and as such their conclusion are restricted with the geographical scope of their study.  
