In the last two decades, there has been substantial expansion of green roof technology in humid and temperate climates, providing a  wide range of ecological, economic, and social benefits in Western and Central Europe, North America, Japan, and China. Green  roofs extend roof life and improve building’s thermal and acoustic insulation (Kosareo and Ries, 2007; Van Renterghem and Botteldooren, 2008; Jim and Tsang, 2011; Jaffal et al., 2012). There are also effects on storm water management by reducing and delaying precipitation runoff (VanWoert et al., 2005; Fioretti et al., 2010), enhancements in urban biodiversity (MacIvor and Lundholm, 2011), mitigation of the so-called urban heat island effect through cooling due to evapotranspiration (Alexandri and Jones, 2008), improvements in air and water quality (Yang et al., 2008; Gregoire and Clausen, 2011) and a psychological benefit for humans because of a more healthy and esthetically pleasing environment (Oberndorfer et al., 2007). 
In terms of design, green or living roofs are typically flat and slightly sloped surfaces planned to support the growth of vegetation (Dvorak and Volder, 2010). Green roof structures consist of a series of layers: a waterproofing membrane over the rooftop, a drainage or retainer system, anti-root and filter membranes (if needed) to place under and over the drainage, respectively, a substrate layer, and plants (Oberndorfer et al., 2007; Berndtsson, 2010). The substrate type and depth has an important role in green roofs (Thuring et al., 2010). Substrate is a specific and engineered growing medium that is lighter than topsoil, better drained, primarily inorganic, and capable of supporting plant growth (Morgan et al., 2012). Substrate depth can range from few centimeters up to a meter. Depending on the substrate depth and irrigation requierements, there are two types of green roofs: extensive and intensive. Extensive green roofs, also referred as eco-roofs or lightweight green roofs, have a substrate layer from 2 to 20cm in depth, require minimal or no irrigation, and are usually planted with moss, succulents, grass, and some herbaceous plants (Dunnett and Kingsbury, 2004; Oberndorfer et al., 2007). Intensive green roofs are deeper than 20cm, often designed as gardens for human use, and usually require irrigation and maintenance. They also can support wild shrubs, coppices, small trees, and lawn (Oberndorfer et al., 2007; FLL, 2008). 
Up to now, one of the major barriers to increasing the prevalence of extensive green roofs arid environments is the lack of scientific data available to evaluate their applicability to local conditions (Williams et al., 2010). In humid regions, rainfall is usually distributed throughout the year, promoting vegetation growth and reducing irrigation requirements. However, in dry regions, maintaining the vegetation condition through the entire dry season without using a large amount of irrigation water becomes challenging (Dvorak and Volder, 2013). Therefore, relying that experience and technology is problematic due to significant differences in climate, available substrates and plants (Williams et al., 2010), so the number of green roof projects has been limited in arid environments (Nektarios et al., 2011; Issa et al., 2015). 
