Climate change and urbanization are the topics of current interest. In the developed countries, urbanization forecasted to attain approximately 83% in 2030 [1]. Due to the rapid economic growth, urbanization is increasing in many countries which degrade the natural landscape as well as the nearby environment [2,3]. These problems can be solved by applying the green stormwater infrastructure strategies. The introduction of new urban development strategies such as rain gardens, green roofs, green walls and bioretention systems can mitigate the adverse effects of urbanization and improve the environment of an area [4,5]. Green roofs also referred as vegetated roofs [5], cool roofs [6], eco roofs (due to ecological benefits), roof garden or living roofs [7–12]. Green roofs are the basically roofs planted with different kind of vegetation/plants on the top of growth medium (substrate). This concept was designed to encourage the vegetations on the top of building to get multiple social, economical and environmental benefits. A green roof typically consists of several components, including vegetation, substrate, filter layer, drainage material, insulation, root barrier and water proofing membranes [13]. The optimal selection of each component of the green roof is very important to get the best outcomes from the green roofs. Each component is equally important and plays very important role for the better performance of green roof in an area [14]. Due to multiple benefits, green roofs are being implemented in many countries. More research is going on the implementation and performance of green roofs in different regions around the world. Fig. 1 shows the 2016 green roof for excellence awards in buildings. 
In  recent decades, green roofs proved as the sustainable practices and have gained much popularity around the globe [16]. Research on the green roofs shows numerous social, environmental and economical benefits. Significant evidence shows that green roofs can give multiple benefits, such as stormwater management, reduced urban heat island, increased urban plant, wildlife habitat and roof life, enhance the air and water quality and quality of life, decreased the energy consumptions costs of the building, decreased the noise pollution, procreates the recreational activities and increased the green areas and aesthetic value in urban environments [16–20]. As the result of water quality enhancement, green roofs decrease the burden of the water treatment facilities in an area [10,21–25]. Due to the above benefits many countries started to implement the green roofs in buildings. As the result of this more and more green roofs are established day by day around the globe. 
Green roofs commonly classified into four categories.  These are intensive, semi-intensive, single-course extensive and multi-course extensive [26]. Intensive green roofs are categorized on the basis of substrate thickness (> 12 in.), a wide variety of plants/vegetations similar ground-level landscapes, high water holding capacity, high capital and maintenance costs and larger weight. Due to the large soil depth, it has more water holding capacity and the plant selection can be more diverse as small trees and shrubs. This also requires more consideration about the building structure capability to bear large weight. Therefore, this type of roofs requires high maintenance in the form of irrigating, weeding and fertile. Green roofs with 6–12in. substrate thickness, referred as semi-intensive green roofs. Semi-intensive green roofs contain the moderately substrate thickness and usually contain small plants, small shrubs and grass. These roofs require regular maintenance a nd high capital costs for the better performance. On the other hand, Single-course extensive roofs are the roofs with substrate thickness 3–4 in. In Single-course extensive roofs, mostly sedum uses as the vegetation layer and typically not required irrigation. It required little capital and maintenance costs as compared to all other roofs. These roofs usually very light weight and very useful where the building weight restrictions. While multi-course extensive roofs consist of 4–6 in. substrate thickness. This roof type is usually light weight and mostly use in the USA. Of the four types, single and multi-course extensive roofs are most common around the world due to less weight, not require irrigation and less capital and maintenance costs. 
