Urban ecosystems are expanding globally, and assessing the ecological consequences of urbanization is critical to understanding the biology of local and global changes related to land use changes (Lambin et al., 2001; Alberti et al., 2003). Green  roofs may be “intensive” or “extensive”. Intensive green roofs may include shrubs and trees and appear similar to landscaping found at natural ground level. As such, they require substrate depths greater than 15 cm and have “intense” maintenance needs. In contrast, extensive green roofs consist of herbaceous perennials or annuals, use shallower media depths (less than 15 cm), and require minimal maintenance. Due to building weight restrictions and costs, extensive green roofs are more common than deeper intensive roofs and carbon fixation on extensive green roofs will be the focus of this study. Green  roofs are shown to provide many ecosystem services (Sutton 2015). Most of the green roof research until now has been on their role in regulation of building temperatures, reducing urban heat-island effects and rainwater management. Green roofs may also sequester carbon in plants and soils. Photosynthesis removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and stores carbon in plant biomass, a process commonly referred to as terrestrial carbon sequestration. Carbon is transferred to the substrate via plant litter and exudates. The length of time that this carbon remains in the soil before decomposition has yet to be quantified for green roofs, but if net primary production exceeds decomposition, this man-made ecosystem will be a net carbon sink, at least in the short term  (Getter et al., 2009). Most previous studies of photosynthesis on green roofs concentrated in measuring direct CO2 uptake by the plants and producing models. The ones that measured CO2 directly did so by either studying specific species or plant groups under lab conditions or on the actual green roofs by taking long-time-period samples using permanent sensors with limited repetitions. 