Buildings  and other engineered structures that form cities are responsible for a significant portion of the local and global impacts of climate change raising the need for an increased and large-scale implementation of energy-efficient and renewable energy technologies [1]. More than 50% of the total world population resides in urban areas and continued urbanisation is also set to define and shape the 21st century, since the level of urbanisation is still rising and is expected to exceed 80% in 2030 in developed countries [2]. This ongoing urbanisation involves an unsustainable use of natural systems and creates numerous problems both within and outside cities, such as the heat island effect and the exacerbated flood risk due to reduced infiltration and consequent enhanced rainwater runoff. In this context, mitigation strategies regarding urban-related environmental problems will be of high priority over the coming decades. Since urban development and growth cannot be stopped, it is desirable to create an environmental friendly city in terms of sustainable development; this city would use efficient energy, circulate natural resources, and provide a comfortable living environment [3]. 
Strategies to mitigate the negative impacts of impervious surfaces in urban areas take three general forms [4]. The first and most common practice is to treat the symptoms of impervious surface through engineered practices such as storm-water ponds, constructed wetlands, bio-retention areas and sand filters. An alternative strategy for mitigating impervious surface ecological impacts is the identification and prevention of converting any areas containing high ecological value to impervious surface, through the creation of parks or wildlife corridors. More specifically, a variety of policy instruments, such as conservation easements and green space requirements, can help towards this direction The final alternative strategy involves the conversion of impervious surfaces in urban areas into a multifunctional land cover that serves both human demands, for instance transportation and housing as well as ecological functions, such as stormwater retention, energy conversion resulting in primary production, and habitat creation. The transportation network, for example, can use porous pavements to permit both traffic flow on the surface and water flow through the pore spaces, allowing infiltration into the soil. Green roofs, also known as rooftop gardens or vegetative roofs or even ecoroofs, are another example of this third strategy. Considering that nearly 50% of impervious surface in highly urbanised areas is unused roof spaces [4], green roofs represent an interesting and viable alternative by converting the impervious surface of a rooftop into multifunctional spaces in urban areas using vegetation, growing media and specialised roofing materials [5,6]. 
They are typically divided into three categories: intensive, semi-intensive and extensive green roofs. Extensive green roofs have thin substrates (5–15 cm), limited plant palates, relatively low costs and minimal weight requirements, while, in contrast, intensive green roofs, sometimes referred to as “rooftop gardens”, have deeper substrates ( 4 15 cm) which allow higher potential for increased plant diversity, but also come with increased weight and higher cost and maintenance requirement [4]. 
Many cities around the world have undertaken greening programmes (e.g. planting urban trees, adding or enhancing parks, providing incentives for green roofs) to benefit from the amenities of urban green spaces [7].Unfortunately, the high amount of impervious along with the high prices of land in urban regions makes creation or even retention of tree planted areas very expensive if not impossible. 
There are several environmental benefits associated with green roofs over urban areas [8,9]. Green roofs in urban and suburban areas act as a green corridor, a stepping stone for wildlife to enter the nearby habitats [10]. In particular, they can connect the fragmented habitats with each other so as to promote the urban biodiversity [10]. They can also prevent and reduce pollution acting as a sink for nitrogen, lead and zinc. Green roofs have been also found to reduce the effects of acid rain by raising the pH value [9]. Plants in green roofs can also absorb air pollutants, for instance carbon dioxide and generate oxygen and reduce the air pollution through the uptake of ozone, NO2, PM10 and SO2 by plants [11]. 
Green roofs may also have an impact on the heat island effect of urban areas through increasing evapotranspiration of water and reduce the energy cost for cooling and/or heating of buildings. Thanks to their water storing capacity, green roofs may significantly reduce the runoff peak of the most rainfall events, delaying the initial time of runoff due to the absorption of water in the green roof system. This leads to an overall runoff reduction by retaining part of the rainfall and distributing the runoff over a long time period through a relative slow release of the excess water that is temporary stored in the pores of the green roofs' substrates [7]. Overall, the performance and benefits of green roof practices have been shown in numerous studies on laboratory scales, in-situ scales and neighbourhood/community scales [12]. 
A challenge that environmental managers are facing is the ability to extrapolate related analysis in extended spatial scales and investigate the functions that may be lost or gained in the process [4]. Following such an analysis, green roof installations could be linked with regional green space plans and policies that may be developed to support connected green space throughout the built landscape. 
