Compact cities are susceptible to  the double impacts of global climate change and urban heat island effect. Anthropogenic heat can degrade urban liveability in thermal terms. Growing urban expansion, densification and associated natural-to-urban land conversion have continued to intensify the thermal stress to affect the comfort and health of urban dwellers. Different measures have been adopted to bring relief. Vegetation and natural areas in cities can ameliorate the thermal load of cities. However, compact cities often lack ground-level space for green spaces. Green roofs provide a feasible alternative nature-based solution to mitigate the thermal plight and bring an array of associated benefits.
Green roof denotes building-integrated vegetation planted deliberately on the roof of a built structure  (Grant, 2006). It is sometimes called roof garden and living roof in the literature. Green roofs can be classified according to key vegetative and substrate features (Grant, 2006; Dunnett and Kingsbury, 2008; Roehr and Fassman-Beck, 2015). Intensive green roof (IGR)  has at least 0.15 m-deep substrate to support complex vegetation including herbs, shrubs and sometimes trees. In comparison, extensive green roof (EGR) has substrate shallower than 0.15 m to accommodate mainly herbaceous vegetation, incurring lower establishment cost and maintenance requirements. To reduce the gross load of IGR on building structure, light-weight materials such as pumice, zeolite and perlite have been used as substrate (Kotsiris et al., 2013). Existing research conducted in compact cities mostly focus on EGR (e.g. Jim, 2015a,b). With increasing installation of IGR, empirical research is needed to ascertain their design, management and benefits. 
Green roofs bring multiple thermal benefits.  Shading by vegetation canopy shields green roof soil surface from incoming solar radiation. Jim and Tsang (2011a) observed woodland vegetation on a Hong Kong green roof filtering 80% of solar irradiance. Reduced solar irradiance can bring surface cooling vis-a-vis conventional bare roof. Cooling performance depended on vegetation characteristics. The respective maximum ground surface cooling for green roof with turf, shrubs and trees reached approximately 18 °C, 26.5 °C and 23.5 °C (Wong et al., 2003a). The insulation effect of the landscape materials could dampen the temperature oscillation experienced by roof materials and lengthen their service life (Wong et al., 2003c; Teemusk and Mander, 2009). Besides the surface, green roof also cools the air above the ground surface. For instance, Speak et al. (2013) observed a nighttime median air cooling of 1.06 °C at 0.3 m height above the short vegetation canopy on a British IGR. For woodland IGR, the beneath-canopy air would affect the heat transfer into the building, which could mitigate the impact of urban heat island effect on indoor building users (Lee et al., 2014). More elaborate measurements of subcanopy air and surface cooling of IGR could improve understanding of relevant thermal functions. Both outdoor and indoor thermal comfort could be enhanced by green roof. On a Singaporean shrub green roof, decrease in globe temperature and mean radiant temperature were respectively 4.05 °C and 4.5 °C against bare roof (Wong et al., 2003b). Green roof serves as additional insulation layer to reduce indoor-outdoor heat exchange. Below a Greek EGR in summer, the indoor air temperature was maintained below 30 °C most of the time versus exceeding 30 °C most of the time in the outdoor air (Niachou et al., 2001). A controlled experiment in India found an average indoor air cooling of 5.1°C (Kumar and Kaushik, 2005). However, thermal comfort is influenced by local climate. The  subtropical region lacks studies on the thermal behavior of IGR. Data harvested from field monitoring would be essential for a deeper understanding of the IGR-induced impact on thermal comfort.
