Sustainable approaches in construction industry are known to make a significant contribution to the purpose of reusing and recycling materials, energy saving, and reducing emissions in order to alleviate the resultant adverse impacts on the environment created by the construction industry (Akadiri et al., 2013; Alyami et al., 2013; Lundholm and Peck, 2008). Green roofs have been introduced as the environmentally friendly approach to inspire sustainable construction (Bianchini and Hewage, 2012a), and carry a large number of environmental benefits (Berardi et al., 2014; Ondono et al., 2016; Simmons et al., 2008). However, there are still some barriers in many countries like Australia, Hong Kong, and Malaysia in installing green roofs (Rahman et al., 2013; Williams et al., 2010; Zhang et al., 2012). Additional initial costs and the maintenance-related costs are stated as the major barriers for green roof installation (Wong, Tay et al., 2003). 
There are two different classifications for green roofs: a) intensive and extensive green roof, and b) built-in-place versus modular (Morgan et al., 2013). Intensive green roofs show remarkable similarities to roof gardens; they need adequate and reasonable depth of soil and also require a constant maintenance during their entire lifespans. However, extensive green roofs consist of a relatively thin layer of soil in comparison to the other types (Czemiel Berndtsson, 2010). Furthermore, they are designed in such a way to be virtually self-sustaining for which high maintenance is not required (Dvorak, 2009). Private benefits and costs for the installation of green roofs vary along with the types; however, all these types provide positive environmental benefits (Mahdiyar et al., 2015). Storm water retention (Dunnett et al., 2008), mitigation of urban heat island (Susca et al., 2011), increasing the property value (Jim and Peng, 2012), and providing recreational spaces (Ascione et al., 2013) are some of the benefits of green roof installation. 
Green roofs have been implemented in many countries with different economic and climatic circumstances (La Roche and Berardi, 2014), and a number of studies have been investigated into economic impacts of installing green roofs. Clark et al. (2008) demonstrated that Net Present Value (NPV) for a conventional roof is between 20% and 25% more than the extensive green roof during its lifespan (over 40 years). Carter and Keeler (2008) collected data during an experimental study for green roof in order to conduct a cost-benefit analysis. The NPV of extensive green roofs in their study indicates that this type of green roof is more expensive than the conventional one ranging from 10% to 14%. Consequently, they concluded that a 20% reduction in initial cost is necessary to consider this type of green roof as an economic-feasible construction practice. Bianchini and Hewage (2012b) assessed the costs and benefits involved in personal and social sectors in installing green roofs. The results from their study indicate that by installing any type of green roof, both private and social sectors are at a lower-risk investment, and green roofs are a personal investment. They also found that the social benefits of green roofs play an important role in obtaining the results. Indeed, considering social costs and benefits directly affects the decision making related to this investment. Niu et al. (2010) aimed investigating into the scale of environmental benefits of green roof installation, from the range of private buildings to the city scale using the financial NPV model. Sproul et al. (2014) conducted an economic comparison between white roof and green roofs, and they found that white roofs provide more net savings for the owner; however, green roof might be preferable due to its environmental benefits. Blackhurst et al. (2010) focused on the beneficial aspects of green roofs such as reduction in building cooling load, storm water runoff, carbon dioxide, air pollutants and mitigation of UHI. They found that green roofs are not cost-effective in private sectors; nevertheless, adding the social sector makes it more cost-efficient.  
