Green roof, as a sustainable alternative of the conventional roof, is defined as the use of vegetation covering the roof of a building (Refahi & Talkhabi, 2015). Installing green roof among private and public sectors is increasing due to the fact of having multiple benefits (Claus & Rousseau, 2012; Pianella, Clarke, Williams, Chen, & Aye, 2016). Green roofs are one of the solutions to increase green area (Susca, Gaffin, & Dell’osso, 2011), especially in central business districts.  The technique of green roof installation on flat roofs was described in 1867 (Jim, 2017), while from that time, different types of green roof construction details have been installed throughout the world (Kosareo & Ries, 2007). Generally, green roofs are categorized into two major types, extensive green roof and intensive green roof (Peng & Jim, 2015; Williams, Rayner, & Raynor, 2010). However, several researchers stated that there is a third type of green roofs as a simple-intensive green roof which name is semi-intensive green roof (Berardi, GhaffarianHoseini, & GhaffarianHoseini, 2014; Bianchini & Hewage, 2012a; Luo, Huang, Liu, & Zhang, 2011; Mahdiyar, Abdullah, Tabatabaee, Mahdiyar, & Mohandes, 2015). It is notable that, there are significant differences in benefits, costs, maintenance periods and the plant types that can be planted in each type of green roofs (Peri, Traverso, Finkbeiner, & Rizzo, 2012). However, all types of green roofs are considered sustainable and environmentally-friendly (Gargari, Bibbiani, Fantozzi, & Campiotti, 2016). 
Intensive green roof has a thick layer of growing medium, wherein a variety of plants can be grown, especially where irrigation is available (Kosareo & Ries, 2007; Peng & Jim, 2015). It is worth mentioning that, additional structural support is needed due to the heavy weight of substrate; thus, this type of green roof is applied to the buildings considering additional structural support (Mahdiyar et al., 2016). On the other hand, extensive green roof has a thinner layer of substrate, which is a relatively lightweight and thus in some cases little or even no additional structural support is needed. It makes this type of roofs applicable to a larger range of buildings (Nardini, Andri, & Crasso, 2011). This advantage, together with minor need for irrigation and maintenance, has led to a larger application of extensive green roofs (Berardi, 2016). Moreover, extensive green roof provides a harsh environment for plant growth with wide temperature fluctuations, limited water availability, and high exposure to solar radiation and wind, which causes a highly stressed environment for growing plants (Nagase & Dunnett, 2010). Furthermore, according to Allnut et al. (2014), semi-intensive green roof is a simple intensive green roof which needs lower additional structural support and maintenance in comparison with intensive green roof. Additionally, different types of plants can be used in semi-intensive green roof, while the thickness of soil is lower than intensive green roof. However, Yang, Yu, and Gong (2008) demonstrated that semi-intensive green roof is a green roof combination of both extensive and intensive green roof with at least 25% of extensive green roof. 
In terms of building retrofitting, it has been proved that there are significant benefits resulting from green roof retrofits (Berardi, 2016; Castleton, Stovin, Beck, & Davison, 2010; Williams et al., 2010). As reported by Castleton et al. (2010), all types of green roofs are technically feasible for retrofitting; however, not all types are economically feasible. Moreover, Gargari et al. (2016) stated that the most important barrier of green roof installation for the owners is their opinion regarding the maintenance costs of green roofs. Intensive and semi-intensive green roofs need a large amount of costs for maintenance; however, it is not true regarding the extensive green roof. According to Jim and Tsang (2011), extensive green roof is the suitable type of green roof for retrofitting due to its light weight and low required maintenance. It is noteworthy that the requirements for additional structural support for building retrofitting with any type of green roofs depend on the building’s roof structure (Berardi et al., 2014). As a result, initial costs, maintenance costs, structural capability, and the projects’ requirements should be considered during decision making (DM) on green roof type selection for retrofitting. 
