Industrialisation, increase in luxury of the people and deforestation has been causing a lot of damage to our natural environment, and human and animal life over time. Implementation of green infrastructure (GI) initiatives have been emerging as thriving measures in bringing back the urban living spaces in many developed and developing countries across the world [1]. There are several types of GI in practice. The Green Roof, otherwise called a living roof, is one of the GI practices, which have many advantages besides a few disadvantages. This has been in practice for centuries; however, it has received more attention in recent years, particularly in Australia, due to its environmental, energy and economic benefits. It reduces air conditioning energy consumption in both winter and summer by keeping a building hot during winter and by acting as a barrier for the heat of the sun during summer [2]. It reduces: (a) life cycle expenses of the roof as green roofs are approximately 3 times more durable than conventional roofs, (b) construction wastes leading to the reduction in construction costs, and (c) sound propagation by acting as insulation medium due to making the roof thicker. Due to better amenity, buildings with green roofs would attract higher rent and higher occupant retention. Environmental benefits include: (a) by acting as a medium which can hold the moisture and water content, it reduces the passage of storm water, consequently reducing erosion, (b) it improves the air quality, and (c) it diminishes the urban heat island effect because, during the summer season, urban areas are hotter than the rural areas. Social benefits include that it increases the educational opportunities, employment opportunities, provides space for food production and provides green space for recreational use. The green roofs protect and extend the roof life against the high temperature and fluctuations, act as insulation to sound. They also allow the improvement in the air quality by capturing carbon dioxide. In general, there are two-types of green roofs. These are intensive (Fig. 1) and extensive (Fig. 2) green roofs. The growing medium is thicker for intensive (more than 300 mm) than for extensive (less than 300 mm) green roofs. Intensive green roofs need a deep soil layer and skilled labour, and higher maintenance than extensive green roofs. The different layers of the green roof are a vegetation layer, substrate layer, water retention layer, filter layer, drainage layer, root barrier layer and protection layer. 
There are lots of buildings which are old and low rise that do not have green roofs. Green roofs on low-rise buildings give more benefits than on the tall buildings, hence a low-rise building was selected for this study. In this study, environmental impacts of both types of green roofs are compared with the non-green roof system. The life cycle of the green roofs was set to 25 years. The major objectives were to evaluate and quantify the environmental impacts of green roofs and to develop a simple model and the database for an LCA of green roof systems using SimaPro simulation software.  
