Urbanisation growth, climate change and water scarcity are current environmental challenges in many cities around the world and it is estimated that more than half of the human population currently lives in cities (United Nations, 2004; Hopkins and Goodwin, 2011). The urban heat island (UHI) effect is one of the main consequences of a changing climate in the cities. The heat island effect is attributed to higher urban temperatures in city districts compared to the surrounding suburban or rural areas. This phenomenon is mainly associated with a high density of buildings and urban structures with low albedo coefficients resulting in the buildings absorbing more solar radiation (Giuseppe and D’Orazio, 2015). Albedo is the ratio of reflected radiation to incident radiation from at a surface. The use of heat absorbing materials, the reduction in vegetated or green spaces, the characteristics of urban canyons and the production of anthropogenic heat have caused the UHI potential to markedly increase in metropolitan areas (Santamouris et al., 2011, 2014; Sun and Augenbroe, 2014). One of the possible solutions to tackle the consequences of urbanisation growth is to introduce green infrastructure to a city’s urban environments. The implementation of green infrastructure is of considerable interest because it is a most effective climate change adaptation tool (Carter, 2011; Berardi et al., 2014; Li et al., 2014). Several methods have been proposed in the literature for combatting the Urban Heat Island (UHI) effect. The addition of green roofs and replacing conventional roof with cool roofs are among the proposed mitigation strategies that aim to reduce UHI. The sensible heat available for transmission to the air or to building envelopes is decreased by both strategies. However, the mechanisms for green roofs and cool roofs to reduce UHI are quite different. Generally, a green roof increases the evapotranspiration rate in urban areas through the addition of soil and plants onto rooftops and redirecting available energy to latent heat. In contrast, a cool roof increases the reflection of incoming solar radiation in urban areas by increasing the albedo of roof surfaces (Li et al., 2014). 
A green roof is an engineering multi-layered structure with the outer layer consisting of vegetation. Green roofs are normally categorised into two types, namely extensive (depth < 150 mm) and intensive (depth ≥ 150 mm) roofs (Berndtsson, 2010; Fassman and Simcock, 2012; Roehr and Fassman-Beck, 2015). Green roofs can bring amenity and enhanced aesthetic value (Getter and Rowe, 2006; Razzaghmanesh et al., 2012; Jungels et al., 2013), increased building value (Nagase and Dunnett, 2010), stormwater runoff mitigation (Mentens et al., 2006; Durhman et al., 2007; Voyde et al., 2010), potential for storm water quality improvement (Berndtsson et al., 2006, 2009, 2010; Razzaghmanesh et al., 2014a), noise reduction (Dunnett and Kingsbury, 2004), the ability to mitigate UHI effects (Wong et al., 2003; Castleton et al., 2010; Chang et al., 2011) and other benefits for urban environments. An investigation of the effects of adding green roofs and green walls to the urban environment of 9 cities around the world with different ranges of climate was undertaken by Alexandri and Jones (2008) who showed that they have a significant effect in reducing urban temperatures. Susca et al. (2011) evaluated the positive effects of vegetation at both the regional and building scales. They monitored the urban heat island in four areas of New York City, and found an average of 2 ◦ C difference in temperatures between the most and the least vegetated areas. Temperature decreases due to vegetation are primarily affected by the vegetation itself (amount and geometry), more than the canyon orientation in hot periods. If applied to the whole city scale, green roofs could mitigate increased urban temperatures, and, especially for hot climates, bring temperatures down to more acceptable levels. They could at the same time lower the energy costs associated with cooling buildings by 32 to 100% (Susca et al., 2011). 
