In Hong Kong, high pollution and lack of greenery have become serious problems to our built environment and communities [1e5]. Majority of buildings are high-rises and their roof areas are typically very limited. As built environments are commonly very densely concentrated, putting greenery on some intermediate roofs and man-made structures such as podia, sky gardens and covered walkways could significantly enhance the surrounding built environment [6e13].  
Although green-roof research is comparatively new, its publication rate has dramatically increased in the last 20 years  [14]. Green roofs suffer from water stress during long dry periods. Periodically, irrigation is usually required to maintain the health of green roofs [15]. Net shortwave radiation of the canopy is also one of the key parts for green-roof energy balance [16]. Hydroponic green roofs can also reduce rooftop's temperatures and heat amplitude in subtropical climates such as Taiwan [17]. The implementation of green roofs may also relieve heat-island effect problems [12,13]. However, its economy and environmental protection have not been clearly identified [18e26]. Thirty-three green roofs in southern Ontario were surveyed and samples of planting media were recovered for hydrological analyses [27]. Different vegetation types and covers were also studied and found to be important for roof cooling  [28]. Green roofs' temperatures have initially been found to be close to the air temperature and green roofs may also provide thermal insulation, runoff reduction, and carbon uptake, but might require irrigation during dry periods [29]. Despite their rising popularity, studies on green roofs thermal insulation performance are however limited. A study in a Central New York climate found that a green roof dampens the extreme responses often observed on urban roofs. Vegetation and substrate layers may be used as insulation, but they are not recommended in lieu of insulation [30]. Energy balance analysis indicates that evapotranspiration and long-wave radiation dissipate most of heat gain for green roofs, and soil water content has a significant impact on energy balance [31]. It is difficult to find out the intangible benefits, i.e. visual aesthetic improvement, health and therapeutic value and ecological value [32e35]. 
According to the direction announced by the Hong Kong Special Administration Region in 2000 to green-up Hong Kong by planning more planting in the urban areas, the Steering Committee on Green established in December 2002 formulated related strategies and supervised the implementation of major programmes. However, no short-term measures or long-term programmes have been set up because of different opinions from bureaux and departments, lack of public consulted opinion and professional knowledge. This paper thus investigates the effectiveness of green-roof applications in Hong Kong. Thermal insulation, capital and maintenance cost, and tangible and intangible benefits are also examined to provide short-term and long-term recommendations for green-roof applications in Hong Kong. 
A green roof is a conventional roof that is covered with a layer of vegetation  [36]. Green roofs serve several purposes for a building, such as absorbing rainwater, providing insulation, creating a habitat for wildlife, lowering urban air temperatures and combating heat-island effects [36]. A green-roof system should include a waterproofing layer, a root barrier, a moisture mat, a drainage grill, a filter layer, vegetation soil and vegetation. The purpose of the root barrier is to prevent plant roots damaging waterproofing materials. The moisture mat is to absorb surplus water overflow from the drainage grill. Excessive moisture will be absorbed by vegetation soil during a dry period through evaporation processes. The drainage grill is used to keep a certain amount of water so that the vegetation soil can remain moist during dry period. 
Green-roof can be classified as extensive and intensive systems . An extensive green roof is characterised by thin soil, limited or no irrigation requirement, low water retention and poor nutrient conditions can be classified as either extensive or intensive green roofs. An extensive green roof is characterised by thin soil, limited or no irrigation requirement, low water retention and poor nutrient conditions for plants [37]. An intensive green roof is characterised with deep soil, irrigation requirements, high water retention and fertile conditions for plants [37]. A summary of the characteristics of extensive and intensive green roofs is shown in Table 1. 
The top three critical barriers encountered  in implementing green roofs were highlighted as ‘Lack of promotion from the government and social communities among the public and private sectors’, “lack of incentive from the government towards the owners of the existing buildings” and “increase in maintenance cost” [38]. Barriers exist in the whole building life cycle process, including plan and design, construction and operation and management stages. It was also argued that the current gap in the lifecycle analyses on green roofs is due to weak focusing on the substrate [39]. These major problems are practically because of fertilizer usage during a disposal phase. Various types of green roofs, components of a green roof, economic revenues and technical attributes have been reviewed [40]. The use of indigenous vegetations for reducing water consumption and increasing energy efficiency for different geographical regions was recommended as possible solutions. Optimal green-roof areas being kept within the cost of a conventional home over a specific life time, such as 50 years have also been discussed [5]. 
