As a result of rapid economic growth, many countries have been experiencing increased urbanisation. Due to this amplified urban population, tall buildings and other new developments are made at the expense of green areas. This resulted in the shortage of greenery which in turn causes a decrease in canopy interception and transpiration within the urban area leading to an increased temperature and decreased air humidity [1]. These problems can be partially solved by altering buildings’ rooftop properties. The introduction of plants and soil to the unutilized rooftop surfaces are often regarded as a valuable strategy to convert buildings more sustainable [2,3]. Green (vegetated, eco or living) roofs are basically roofs planted with vegetation on top of the growth medium (substrate). The concept was designed and developed to promote the growth of various forms of vegetation on the top of buildings and thereby provide aesthetical as well as environmental and economic benefits. Green roofs generally comprise of several components, including vegetation, substrate, filter fabric, drainage material, root barrier and insulation. The role played by each component is well defined in engineered green roof system and type of each green roof component depends on the geographic location [4]. 
Green roofs are broadly classified into intensive, semi-intensive and extensive green roofs. Intensive green roofs are characterized with thick substrate layer (20–200 cm), wide variety of plants, high maintenance, high capital cost and greater weight. Due to increased soil depth, the plant selection can be more diverse including shrubs and small trees. Therefore, typically require high maintenance in the form of fertilising, weeding and watering. On the other hand, extensive green roofs are characterized with thin substrate layer (less than 15 cm), low capital cost, low weight and minimal maintenance. Owing to the thin substrate layer, extensive roofs can accommodate only limited type of vegetation types including grasses, moss and few succulents. An extensive green roof system is commonly used in situations where no additional structural support is desired. Semi-intensive green roofs accommodate small herbaceous plants, ground covers, grasses and small shrubs due to moderately thick substrate layer. These roofs require frequent maintenance as well as sustain high capital costs. Of the three types, extensive green roofs are most common around the world due to building weight restrictions, costs and maintenance. 
Green roofs present numerous economic and social benefits in addition to more obvious environmental advantages such as storm–water management, decreased energy consumption of buildings, improved water and air quality, decreased noise pollution, extended roof life, reduced heat-island effect and increased green space in urban environments [1,5,6]. Many countries and municipalities understood these benefits and started to implement or even mandate green roofs in buildings. Consequently, more and more green roofs are established. Shortly, commercial green roof products started to appear in the market doing brisk business. However, it should be pointed out that the focus of green roof developers has been limited to achieving basic aesthetical benefits of green roofs [1]. Many other benefits of green roofs are just as achievable, but thus far the green roofs generally are not optimised to meet those [7]. This is generally due to lack of research on different aspects of green roofs and premature introduction of products into the market. Thus, there is a great need for green roof research. The objectives of this review are to understand the current scenario in green roof research, provide suggestions to select different green roof components based on requirements and strategies to develop practical green roofs to meet consumer needs. In addition, this review also summarizes the benefits of green roofs as well as recent trends in green roof technology. 
