A vegetative roof implies planting vegetation on a building rooftop through defined engineering methods. It is a modern way of restoring an ecosystem that was earlier destroyed by the rapid expansion of building construction due to the migration of rural people to urban centers (Satterthwaite, McGranahan, & Tacoli, 2010). Vegetative roofs have several benefits, and are widely considered as a practical solution to make buildings more sustainable (Saadatian et al., 2013; Sangkakool, Techato, Zaman, & Brudermann, 2018; Wong, Tay, Wong, Ong, & Sia, 2003), by providing a healthy environment with low energy consumption. Vegetative roofs offer numerous theoretical economic and environmental benefits to the building underneath, as well as to the surrounding environment. Few of these benefits (Oberndorfer et al., 2007; Rowe, 2011) include (i) runoff peak-flow reduction during high storm events (Morgan, Celik, & Retzlaff, 2013; Zhang, Szota, Fletcher, Williams, & Farrell, 2019); (ii) rainwater buffering (Vijayaraghavan, Joshi, & Balasubramanian, 2012); (iii) mitigating urban heat island (Santamouris, 2014); (iv) decreased energy requirements of the building (La Roche & Berardi, 2014; Ziogou, Michopoulos, Voulgari, & Zachariadis, 2018); (v) sound insulation and noise reduction (Connelly & Hodgson, 2015); (vi) improved air quality (Rowe, 2011); (vii) increased aesthetic value of the building (Jungels, Rakow, Allred, & Skelly, 2013); (viii) protection of the roof membrane of the building (Lata et al., 2018); and (ix) ecological preservation in cities (Johnston & Newton, 1995; Teotónio, Silva, & Cruz, 2018). Several developing and developed nations have recognized these unique advantages and started implementing, and in some instances mandating, the vegetative roofs in urban structures. In 2015, France approved a new rule that mandates all establishments that are newly created in commercial places to be partly installed with either vegetative roofs or photovoltaic panels. Other countries, such as Germany, Canada (Toronto), Denmark (Copenhagen), Japan (Tokyo) and Switzerland (Zürich), have already adopted mandatory vegetative roof by law. Vegetative roofs are also extremely popular in several European (Norway, Sweden and the UK), American (USA) and Asian (Singapore, China and Hong Kong) counties. However, the importance and benefits of vegetative roofs are still not recognized by several nations and their respective policy makers. This might be due to the limited or lack of local research in the respective countries. 
Here we would like to give a brief introduction to vegetative roofs, including their characteristics and components, for the interest of readers new to this topic. Vegetative roofs are often regarded as eco-roofs, bio-roofs, and living-roofs, and are generally categorized into extensive and intensive vegetative roofs. Extensive vegetative roofs have a thin growth-substrate layer that can accommodate only a few species of plants, whereas intensive vegetative roofs comprise a thick growth-substrate layer and therefore support a wide variety of plant species. Table 1 summarizes important characteristics of different vegetative roof types. We should point out that extensive vegetative roofs are the most common and popular worldwide. 
Some research reports have highlighted the possibility of achieving potential benefits  of vegetative roofs (Mahdiyar, Tabatabaee, Abdullah, & Marto, 2018; Morgan et al., 2013; Rowe, 2011). However, the focus of commercial developers is often limited to the development of low-weight growth substrate and its subsequent management (fertilization and irrigation) to facilitate plant growth (Berndtsson, 2010). As a result, most commercial vegetative roofing cannot accomplish all of the benefits. This scenario is likely to change once more research reports emerge, and also by close cooperation between academic researchers and commercial developers. It is also important to understand the potential constraint that hinders the positive image of a vegetative roof. Of these, a crucial concern often linked with vegetative roof technology is the runoff quality, and several researchers have pointed out that the runoff quality from vegetative roofs is questionable , as it has been found to contain several pollutants (Berndtsson, 2010; Vijayaraghavan, 2016). It is known that plants and substrate components heavily influence the runoff quality of vegetative roofs (Berndtsson, 2010). However, research performed on these components to possibly improve the quality of runoff is relatively limited (Long, Clark, Berghage, & Baker, 2008; Vijayaraghavan & Joshi, 2015; Vijayaraghavan & Raja, 2015a). Therefore, this review intends to systematically assess the quality of runoff generated from vegetative roofs, and suggest ways to enhance the runoff quality. 
